ELTRACO (Ellard's track control system) 

constitutes a wireless model rail-road track control system to be used with “ROCRAIL™”.

It consists of hardware and software.

The hardware components are:
Wifi router
Raspberry Pi
Smart Turnout Decoder
Sensor Decoder
LED Decoder
Hall sensor holder.
Current detection Sensor
Servo motor
Servo motor bracket

The software components are:
Raspbian
Rocrail
Mosquitto
Eltraco software package

Functions performed:

Wireless control of turnouts:
the decoder moves the turnout
switches polarity of driving current
signals this movement by means of a software alert
signals occupation by means of current detection

Wireless occupation detection:
the decoder advertises track occupation by means of
hall sensor and/or by means of current detection sensor
other sensors or switches are accommodated easily

Wireless on/off switching of outputs

OVERVIEW

The router creates a closed WiFi network. Rocrail and Mosquitto are installed on a Raspi.
Rocrail is the model rail road controlling software. It communicates wireless via the 
“MQTT”(Message Queue Telemetry Transport) protocol with the Eltraco decoders. Mosquitto is the 
“MQTT – post office”.

All decoders have the same software package. Functionality of each separate decoder is 
configured via a website generated by the decoder. After the initial installation, updates can be 
performed “OTA” (Over The Air). After installation of a servo underneath the baseboard of the 
layout it needs adjustment of two angles, one for the straight position and one for the thrown 
position. This adjustment is done with the configuration website.

One type of turnout decoder controls two turnouts. 
The second one controls one turnout and accommodates four digital sensors.
Each sensor decoder accommodates eight digital and one analogue sensor.
With each switch decoder eight individual outputs can be switched on and off wireless by Rocrail.

MORE INFORMATION

Information on how to make the hardware and how to use the system with Rocrail is available on 
my user pages of the Rocrail Website.

Ellard Postma
February 2018
